Math Functions (Visual Basic)

Visual Studio 2012 Other Versions 1 out of 4 rated this helpful - Rate this topic
The methods of the System.Math class provide trigonometric, logarithmic, and other common mathematical functions.

Remarks
The following table lists methods of the System.Math class. You can use these in a Visual Basic program.

.NET Framework method

Description

Abs

Returns the absolute value of a number.

Acos

Returns the angle whose cosine is the specified number.

Asin

Returns the angle whose sine is the specified number.

Atan

Returns the angle whose tangent is the specified number.

Atan2

Returns the angle whose tangent is the quotient of two specified numbers.

BigMul

Returns the full product of two 32-bit numbers.

Ceiling

Returns the smallest integral value that's greater than or equal to the specified Decimal or Double.

Cos

Returns the cosine of the specified angle.

Cosh

Returns the hyperbolic cosine of the specified angle.

DivRem

Returns the quotient of two 32-bit or 64-bit signed integers, and also returns the remainder in an output parameter.

Exp

Returns e (the base of natural logarithms) raised to the specified power.

Floor

Returns the largest integer that's less than or equal to the specified Decimal or Double number.

IEEERemainder

Returns the remainder that results from the division of a specified number by another specified number.

Log

Returns the natural (base e) logarithm of a specified number or the logarithm of a specified number in a specified base.

Log10

Returns the base 10 logarithm of a specified number.

Max

Returns the larger of two numbers.

Min

Returns the smaller of two numbers.

Pow

Returns a specified number raised to the specified power.

Round

Returns a Decimal or Double value rounded to the nearest integral value or to a specified number of fractional digits.

Sign

Returns an Integer value indicating the sign of a number.

Sin

Returns the sine of the specified angle.

Sinh

Returns the hyperbolic sine of the specified angle.

Sqrt

Returns the square root of a specified number.

Tan

Returns the tangent of the specified angle.

Tanh

Returns the hyperbolic tangent of the specified angle.

Truncate

Calculates the integral part of a specified Decimal or Double number.

To use these functions without qualification, import the System.Math namespace into your project by adding the following code to the top of your source file:

Imports System.Math
Example
This example uses the Abs method of the Math class to compute the absolute value of a number.

' Returns 50.3.
Dim MyNumber1 As Double = Math.Abs(50.3)
' Returns 50.3.
Dim MyNumber2 As Double = Math.Abs(-50.3)
This example uses the Atan method of the Math class to calculate the value of pi.

Public Function GetPi() As Double
    ' Calculate the value of pi.
    Return 4.0 * Math.Atan(1.0)
End Function
This example uses the Cos method of the Math class to return the cosine of an angle.

Public Function Sec(ByVal angle As Double) As Double
    ' Calculate the secant of angle, in radians.
    Return 1.0 / Math.Cos(angle)
End Function
This example uses the Exp method of the Math class to return e raised to a power.

Public Function Sinh(ByVal angle As Double) As Double
    ' Calculate hyperbolic sine of an angle, in radians.
    Return (Math.Exp(angle) - Math.Exp(-angle)) / 2.0
End Function
This example uses the Log method of the Math class to return the natural logarithm of a number.

Public Function Asinh(ByVal value As Double) As Double
    ' Calculate inverse hyperbolic sine, in radians.
    Return Math.Log(value + Math.Sqrt(value * value + 1.0))
End Function
This example uses the Round method of the Math class to round a number to the nearest integer.

' Returns 3.
Dim MyVar2 As Double = Math.Round(2.8)
This example uses the Sign method of the Math class to determine the sign of a number.

' Returns 1.
Dim MySign1 As Integer = Math.Sign(12)
' Returns -1.
Dim MySign2 As Integer = Math.Sign(-2.4)
' Returns 0.
Dim MySign3 As Integer = Math.Sign(0)
This example uses the Sin method of the Math class to return the sine of an angle.

Public Function Csc(ByVal angle As Double) As Double
    ' Calculate cosecant of an angle, in radians.
    Return 1.0 / Math.Sin(angle)
End Function
This example uses the Sqrt method of the Math class to calculate the square root of a number.

' Returns 2.
Dim MySqr1 As Double = Math.Sqrt(4)
' Returns 4.79583152331272.
Dim MySqr2 As Double = Math.Sqrt(23)
' Returns 0.
Dim MySqr3 As Double = Math.Sqrt(0)
' Returns NaN (not a number).
Dim MySqr4 As Double = Math.Sqrt(-4)
This example uses the Tan method of the Math class to return the tangent of an angle.

Public Function Ctan(ByVal angle As Double) As Double
    ' Calculate cotangent of an angle, in radians.
    Return 1.0 / Math.Tan(angle)
End Function
Requirements
Class: Math

Namespace: System

Assembly: mscorlib (in mscorlib.dll)